---
title: "WCCM22 - Ratel - a Portable and Scalable Package for Solid and Fluid Mechanics"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-07-31-WCCM22
venue: "World Conference on Computational Mechanics (virtual)"
date: 2022-07-31
location: "Yokohama, Japan"
---
<!-- TO DO -->
Ratel is a new, open-source package built on libCEED and PETSc capable of solving complex solid/fluid mechanics problems without sacrificing computational performance. This package provides a flexible yet intuitive user interface that reduces the prerequisite effort required for use, encouraging community involvement and development. Similar to libCEED and PETSc, Ratel is both performance portable and scalable allowing for effective material simulations on a variety of computing systems. Notably, Ratel uses single-source physics implementations with Just-In-Time compilations (rather than with domain specific languages or templates) and supports matrix-free high order elements. Additionally, we discuss high-performance automatic differentiation using Enzyme to simplify the development of new material models with consistent Jacobians. We discuss Ratel's solver functionality including quasi-static and dynamic solvers and composite material support. In this presentation we also investigate Ratel's performance on CPUs and GPUs, number of nodes, and solver degree for various physical simulations taken from Ratel's example suite. Finally, Ratel is structured as a library to support uncertainty quantification or optimization studies.
